Quest descriptions often have tips and tricks.
You can put your larger setups in Compact Machines to save space.
Automation is key!
Mekanism Cables tend to cause lag, be careful not to overuse them.
Press "Backspace" to go to the previous recipe in JEI.
The changelog will let you know what has changed between updates.
Instead of using filled buckets in recipes, you can use filled Portable Tanks for batch crafting.
XNet is both cheap and powerful.
Always craft extras.
To loot a dragon, right-click it with an empty hand.
Thermal Expansion machines may need upgrades in order to craft certain recipes.
OP: The command "/bq_admin default load" reloads the questbook. It will not alter your progress.
OP: The command "/bqs_loot default load" reloads the available loot from Loot Chests.
OP: You can restore a player's inventory after death with the command "/tmg_restore PlayerName latest". You can also cycle through different deaths with the Tab key.
Keep your item cables short. Not only does it speed up the overall transfer, it is also easier on the server.
Some items have JEI descriptions explaining how to obtain them.
Use F7 to see the light levels on the ground and F9 to see the chunk borders.
Press Shift/Sneak over your grave to retrieve your items.
Holding the Drawer Key in your off-hand will automatically lock a newly placed Storage Drawer.
There is no Cow Level.
Obsidian can be crafted using a Stone Barrel.
No more capturing Ghasts for the Angel Ring!
Mana Infused Ingots can be crafted using Manasteel.
The Immersive Petroleum Pumpjack needs an Immersive Engineering Fluid Pipe to bedrock to function.
Titanium Ingots can be crafted in the Advanced Metallurgic Infuser.
The majority of power generators have had their output and efficiency tweaked.
Block of Prosperity is craftable.
Want flux? Empty out your crucible.
Astral Sorcery can allow for easy Kekimurus automation.
Slime Boots are easy to get early game, and will save your life.
Dragon Lairs often have chests with materials that can allow you to progress quickly, but don't stick around too long!
Mob Spawners can be moved by using a drop of evil on them, or by carrying them. (Right-shift + Click by default)
The Impulsion Wand can be used for an interesting and cinematic Wither Battle.
Starlight Transmutation gives you access to End Stone without ever going to The End.
If you hear a dragon roar underground, turn on subtitles to better tell the direction it came from.
Creative-like Flight doesn't work in the Twilight Forest.
If you're having issues getting Wither Skeleton Skulls, try using The Ender from Ender IO.
Cyclic has lots of items that are affordable early game, but stay relevant throughout the game, like the Ender Book.
You can put the Astral Sorcery Linking Wand in your offhand, and it won't stop linking.
"/xu_powersharing" allows you to share Extra Utilities Grid Power with anyone on your server.
Be sure to pick up Chests, Pistons and Furnaces when you see them.
Astral Sorcery Rituals (and linked Ritual Anchors) act as Chunkloaders.
There are a lot of ways to get flight-without-flight in the pack. Think outside the box.
Prepare lots of space for Blood Magic Altars.
Horologium is an easy to miss dim constellation, be sure to attune yourself and check the sky with the Telescope every night as it only appears every 36 days.
Cyclic Scaffolding is great for building. Sneak-clicking places it on opposite face of the block you clicked. Comes in three varieties: one decays into nothing quickly, one breaks all connected scaffolds when one is broken, and the third one can be replaced with blocks by right-clicking.
The RFTools Storage Scanner can make early game crafting a lot easier.
You can use IC2 transformers to throttle the EU/t machines receive. This is useful for machines such as the Matter Fabricator which doesn't have an effective limit.
Mystical Agriculture plants have a 5% chance of dropping 2 seeds when harvested with left click.
There are many different valid fuels for the Tinkers' Construct smeltery, all with different attributes.
Thaumcraft's Workbench Charger allows the Arcane Workbench to pull vis from all adjacent chunks.
The Thaumic Dioptra visualizes the Vis concentration in nearby chunks.
Pile of Ashes from the Nether are a great early game fuel source.
A Cactus Battlesign can reflect arrows and damage when held in the off-hand.
The Akashic Tome is a portable bookshelf capable of holding all of your informational books and guides.
A 13x13x13 Compact Machine is large enough for all of your Thaumcraft needs, and will prevent flux from spreading to your base.
Growing Sugar Cane on Rustic's Fertile Soil does not require an adjacent water source.
Under NO circumstances activate Veinminer while working around AE2 networks!
The Tinkers' Sledge Hammer can crush blocks into others, like Ex Nihilo Hammers.
Cyclic's Apple Sprouts are cheap and tasty, and can be used to make a Pam's Apple Tree.
Sneak right-click activates your offhand item instead of your main hand item.
Many mods offer cross-dimensional teleportation at surprisingly cheap prices.
Don't hate on bees. Pam's and Rustic bees are simple and great early game.
Mob Farms will lag less if spread out over a large area. The main load comes from mobs pathing away from each other.
EnderIO's Ender Fluid Conduits can simultaneously transport multiple liquids through the same block.
NuclearCraft machines automatically convert Mekanism gases into their fluid forms, and vice-versa.
Go through the Controls. Lots of mods have features that need to be bound to a key.
Be sure to check out Dark Utilities' charms! They can speed up certain tasks, like eating and sleeping!
Utilize the Quark chest buttons in your inventory! They help a lot with early game storage management.
Applied Energistics Interfaces can be named in an anvil, but will lose their name if broken with anything but the Network Tool.
Applied Energistics Interfaces are grouped together by their name in the Interface Terminal.
The advanced Morphing Tool (Morphing Tool crafted with 4 gears) is a good way to get all wrenches early. It also helps to keep your inventory neat.
The command /foodlist size shows you how many different foods you already ate.
You can shift-right click Acceleration Cards into Molecular Assemblers.
The rockbreaker can be used to easily automate cobblestone in the earlygame.
Flat transfer nodes work like gregtech covers, allowing you to transfer items and fluids between machines without needing pipes. They can be very useful in compact setups.
The Bee Diversity Store allows you to trade bees for time, check out it's quest in the forestry questline for more info.
Wings of The Bat can give you creative flight for a limited time.
The IC2 Jetpack can be charged in mekanism energy cubes as well as in IC2 batboxes.
The IC2 Jetpack is a great option for earlygame flight.
Building gadgets are craftable sooner than Building Wands.
Join the discord if you need extra help, find friends, or just want to show off your base!
Extra Utilities 2's Indexer is a pretty underrated storage system option, offering unlimited storage and range with no energy cost, as well has costing very little to set up. Check out it's quest for more info.
Once you start producing RF, look into the storage scanner. It's a really easy storage option to set up, it scans nearby storage containers and allows you to easily insert and extract items all of them at once, The machines comes with a storage grid, and can save recipes as well.
If you think something deserves a video guide, post about it in the discord.
The Tinkers Tank Multiblock can hold multiple fluids, and a large amount of it given its cost.
Diamond Spikes will make mobs drop "player kill only" items, such as wither skulls and blaze rods.
Read the questbook! It's bound to Grave (`) by default.
Multiblocked multis can wallshare and share hatches like Gregtech multis.
The EnderIO farmer can be used to automate trees and plants.
The Multiblocked multis can be used to craft various recipe much faster and without requiring the recipe to be set beforehand.
PAE2 has wireless crafting, pattern, and fluid terminals.
Universal Cables can convert RF to EU and vice versa.
Immersive Engineering Waterwheels can produce a passive 88rf/t if set up properly, refer to it's quest for a guide.
Rustic's boozes can be rather powerful.
Mekanism's Charging Pad and Power Cube, Immersive Engineering's Charging Station, and Cyclic's Battery are all great options for charging items in the earlygame, such as building gadgets.
The chute can be used as an alterative to droppers, dropping any items pushed into it.
ArchitectureCraft can be used to add slopes to your bases, as well as varity of other base enhancing functions.
Sponges can remove jetpacks from armor and tinkers modifiers from tools by crafting them with said item

